bpo-37800: Clean up importlib documentation for some module attributes (#10016)
python/cpython: Doc/library/importlib.rst

    See :pep:`302` for the exact definition for a loader.

    Loaders that wish to support resource reading should implement a

>     :meth:`get_resource_reader(fullname)` method as specified by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    :meth:`get_resource_reader` method as specified by
```

        module should be used and reloaded.
        Otherwise the loader should create a new module and insert it into
        :data:`sys.modules` before any loading begins, to prevent recursion
        from the import.  If the loader inserted a module and the load fails, it
        must be removed by the loader from :data:`sys.modules`; modules already
        in :data:`sys.modules` before the loader began execution should be left
        alone (see :func:`importlib.util.module_for_loader`).

        The loader should set several attributes on the module
        (note that some of these attributes can change when a module is
        reloaded):

        - :attr:`__name__`
            The module's fully-qualified name.
            It is ``'__main__'`` for the top-level module.

        - :attr:`__file__`
            The location from which the module was loaded (usually the path).
            It is not set on all modules (e.g. built-in modules).

        - :attr:`__cached__`
            The path to a compiled version of the module's code.
            It is not set on all modules (e.g. built-in modules).

        - :attr:`__path__`

>             The list of paths where to find submodules within a package.

Reviewer 2: See https://github.com/python/cpython/pull/10016/files#r679315746.

```suggestion
            The list of locations where the package's submodules will be found.
```

or, better, with a nod to the common case:

```suggestion
            The list of locations where the package's submodules will be found.
            Most of the time this is a single directory.
```

Author: Done.

>             It is used in the same way as :attr:`sys.path` but just for the
>             package.  It is not set on non-package modules so it is the
>             indicator that a module is a package.

Reviewer 2: The import system treats the spec as authoritative for nearly all module information.  This is the one exception.  While we don't need to dive into all the detail that the language reference should have, it is worth mentioning the importance of this attribute in that context.

So this sentence is a good addition.  I only recommend that we be a bit more specific:

```suggestion
            The import system passes this to ``__import__()`` and to finders
            in the same way as :attr:`sys.path` but just for the package.
            It is not set on non-package modules so it can be used
            as an indicator that a module is a package.
```

       :meth:`create_module` must be defined.

       .. versionadded:: 3.4

       .. versionchanged:: 3.6
          :meth:`create_module` must also be defined.

    .. method:: load_module(fullname)

        A legacy method for loading a module.  If the module cannot be
        loaded, :exc:`ImportError` is raised, otherwise the loaded module is
        returned.

        If the requested module already exists in :data:`sys.modules`, that
        module should be used and reloaded.
        Otherwise the loader should create a new module and insert it into
        :data:`sys.modules` before any loading begins, to prevent recursion
        from the import.  If the loader inserted a module and the load fails, it
        must be removed by the loader from :data:`sys.modules`; modules already
        in :data:`sys.modules` before the loader began execution should be left
        alone (see :func:`importlib.util.module_for_loader`).

        The loader should set several attributes on the module
        (note that some of these attributes can change when a module is
        reloaded):

        - :attr:`__name__`
            The module's fully-qualified name.

>             It is ``'__main__'`` for a top-level module.

Reviewer 2: For a top-level module it will be the module name (with no dots).  So shouldn't "top-level module" instead be "script".  Or perhaps I misunderstood this sentence?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            It is ``'__main__'`` for an executed module.
```

        - :attr:`__file__`

>             The location the :term:`loader` should use to load the module.

Reviewer 2: nit: it is the location the loader used to load the module, not that it should use.  That's what ModuleSpec.origin is for.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            The location the :term:`loader` used to load the module.
```

        reloaded):

        - :attr:`__name__`
            The module's fully-qualified name.

        - :attr:`__file__`
            The location from which the module was loaded (usually the path).
            It is not set on all modules (e.g. built-in modules).

        - :attr:`__cached__`
            The path to a compiled version of the code.
            It is not set when the attribute would be inappropriate.

        - :attr:`__path__`

>             The (possibly empty) iterable specifying the submodule search paths

Reviewer 2: Let's stay closer to what the original says (and clarify a little):

```suggestion
            For packages, the list of strings specifying where to look for submodules.
            This is used in the same way as :attr:`sys.path`, but just for the package.
            Effectively, it is the indicator that the module is a package.  For
            non-package modules ``__path__`` is not set.
```

        reloaded):

        - :attr:`__name__`
            The module's fully-qualified name.

        - :attr:`__file__`
            The location from which the module was loaded (usually the path).

>             It is not set on all modules (e.g. built-in modules).

Reviewer 3: I'd rather say something like "Some modules have no location (e.g. built-in modules).  In those cases, this attribute will not exist."

Author: I have updated the text with a similar meaning, but keeping the verb ‘set’ as we use it in almost every attribute.

        - :attr:`__cached__`
            The path to a compiled version of the code.
            It is not set when the attribute would be inappropriate.

        - :attr:`__path__`
            For packages, the list of strings specifying where to look for submodules.
            This is used in the same way as :attr:`sys.path`, but just for the package.
            Effectively, it is the indicator that the module is a package.  For
            non-package modules, it is not set.

        - :attr:`__package__`
            The fully-qualified name of the package under which the module was

>             loaded as a submodule (or the empty string for top-level modules).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
            loaded as a submodule (or an empty string for top-level modules).
```

            For packages, it is the same as :attr:`__name__`.

        - :attr:`__loader__`

>             The loader that was used to load the module.

Reviewer 3: Make that: :term:`loader`

Author: Done.

>             The loader that was used when loading the module.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
            The loader that was used to load the module.
```

        reloaded):

        - :attr:`__name__`
            The module's fully-qualified name.

        - :attr:`__file__`

>             The location of the module's source code.

Reviewer 2: s/location/filename/

Author: Since `__file__ == __spec__.origin` in most cases, we might use the same definition for consistency. I see what was bothering you with the term "location" vs "place": a "location" is technical while a "place" is more general and is not necessarily a precise location (hence the ``__spec__.has_location`` boolean attribute). So what about:

> The place from which the module's data was imported.  Its value and meaning is up to the finder.
> It is the relative path for modules run from the file system, the absolute path for imported modules and modules run from the module namespace and ``'<stdin>'`` for non-package modules run from standard input.
> It is not set for imported namespace packages, imported built-in modules and imported frozen modules.

Reviewer 2: Hmm, you have a point.  It matters for custom importers.  However, it would be worth being clear about the common case:
```suggestion
            The location (usually filename) of the module's source code.
```

Reviewer 2: I'm going to bring this up in a new review.

            It is not set for built-in modules and frozen modules

>             and ``None`` for namespace packages.

Reviewer 3: This reads just a bit awkwardly for me.  What do you think about "It is ``None`` for namespace packages and not set for built-in and frozen modules." ?

Author: Okay, updated.

        - :attr:`__cached__`

>             The location of the module's compiled code.

Reviewer 2: s/location/filename/

Also, the original text reflects the fact that the .pyc file might not actually exist.  I think the new text should still reflect that.

Author: Running a foo.py file with this contents:

```
import sys

print("MODULE")

for attr in ["__name__", "__file__", "__cached__", "__path__", "__package__", "__loader__"]:
    print(f"{attr}:", repr(getattr(sys.modules[__name__], attr, "not set")))

print("SPEC")

if hasattr(sys.modules[__name__], "__spec__"):
    if sys.modules[__name__].__spec__ is None:
        print("__spec__:", repr(sys.modules[__name__].__spec__))
    else:
        for attr in ["name", "origin", "cached", "submodule_search_locations", "parent", "loader"]:
            print(f"__spec__.{attr}:", repr(getattr(sys.modules[__name__].__spec__, attr)))
else:
    print("__spec__: not set")
```

outputs:

```
$ python3 foo.py 
MODULE
__name__: '__main__'
__file__: 'foo.py'
__cached__: None
__path__: 'not set'
__package__: None
__loader__: <_frozen_importlib_external.SourceFileLoader object at 0x10dacbda0>
SPEC
__spec__: None

$ cat foo.py | python3
MODULE
__name__: '__main__'
__file__: '<stdin>'
__cached__: None
__path__: 'not set'
__package__: None
__loader__: <class '_frozen_importlib.BuiltinImporter'>
SPEC
__spec__: None

$ python3 -c "import foo"
MODULE
__name__: 'foo'
__file__: '/Users/maggyero/Desktop/foo.py'
__cached__: '/Users/maggyero/Desktop/__pycache__/foo.cpython-37.pyc'
__path__: 'not set'
__package__: ''
__loader__: <_frozen_importlib_external.SourceFileLoader object at 0x100987390>
SPEC
__spec__.name: 'foo'
__spec__.origin: '/Users/maggyero/Desktop/foo.py'
__spec__.cached: '/Users/maggyero/Desktop/__pycache__/foo.cpython-37.pyc'
__spec__.submodule_search_locations: None
__spec__.parent: ''
__spec__.loader: <_frozen_importlib_external.SourceFileLoader object at 0x100987390>

$ python3 -m foo
MODULE
__name__: '__main__'
__file__: '/Users/maggyero/Desktop/foo.py'
__cached__: '/Users/maggyero/Desktop/__pycache__/foo.cpython-37.pyc'
__path__: 'not set'
__package__: ''
__loader__: <_frozen_importlib_external.SourceFileLoader object at 0x109c715f8>
SPEC
__spec__.name: 'foo'
__spec__.origin: '/Users/maggyero/Desktop/foo.py'
__spec__.cached: '/Users/maggyero/Desktop/__pycache__/foo.cpython-37.pyc'
__spec__.submodule_search_locations: None
__spec__.parent: ''
__spec__.loader: <_frozen_importlib_external.SourceFileLoader object at 0x109c715f8>
```

Among the 4 commands above (`python3 foo.py`, `cat foo.py | python3`, `python3 -c "import foo"` and `python3 -m foo`), we notice the following relation: the commands that create a .pyc file set the `__cached__` attribute to a path (`python3 -c "import foo"` and `python3 -m foo`), and the commands that do not create a .pyc file set the `__cached__` attribute to `None` (`python3 foo.py` and ``cat foo.py | python3``), which is consistent. So I agree that I missed the fact that a .pyc file might not actually exist.

So if we use a similar definition than the `__spec__.cached` attribute, what about:

> The location of the module's cached data. It is the relative path for packages run from the file system and the absolute path for imported modules and modules run from the module namespace.
> It is not set for non-package modules run from the file system, non-package modules run from standard input, imported namespace packages, imported built-in modules and imported frozen modules.

Reviewer 2: re-visited in a follow-up review

            It is not set for built-in modules, frozen modules
            and namespace packages.

        - :attr:`__path__`

>             The iterable (possibly empty) of the locations of the module's

Reviewer 2: Here are some critical details:

- [ ] set on packages
- [x] not set on non-packages
- [x] iterable (implies that order matters)
- [x] may be empty
- [x] it's where to find submodules
- [ ] submodules will be found *within* those locations
- [ ] used instead of `sys.metapath` during import of submodules

Also, in order to provide the context earlier, I'd move that last line to the front.

All together, consider instead:

```
This is only set on packages (and not on non-package modules).
The iterable (possibly empty) of all locations to search when looking for the package's submodules.  Order is significant.  `__path__` is passed to finders instead of `sys.metapath` during import of the package's submodules.
```

FWIW, "search path" has a well-established (and effectively concise) meaning in the context of the import system, even if it isn't a familiar term to many folks.  It's a shame to see it go away.

Author: I agree with your suggestion. We could also add "search path" in parentheses in the second sentence so that the term does not go away:

> The (possibly empty) iterable of all locations to search (i.e. the search path) when looking for the package's submodules.  Order is significant. ``__path__`` is passed to finders instead of ``sys.metapath`` during import of the package's submodules.
> It is not set for non-package modules, packages run from the file system and packages run from the module namespace.

Reviewer 2: re-visited in a follow-up review

            submodules.
            It is not set for non-package modules.

        - :attr:`__package__`

>             The module's ``__name__`` attribute for a package, the parent

Reviewer 2: This is not correct.  For subpackages it is also the parent.

```
For submodules (including subpackages), the ``__name__`` of the parent package.  For top-level modules it will always be ``''``.
...
```

Author: I disagree on this, because here is what I observe:

```
$ mkdir -p foo/bar
$ python3 -c "import foo.bar; print(foo.bar.__package__); print(foo.bar.__name__)"
foo.bar
foo.bar
```

And with \_\_init\_\_.py files in each directory we get the same output. So for both namespace and regular packages, `package.subpackage.__package__ == package.subpackage.__name__`.

Reviewer 2: You're right.  Packages use their `__name__`.

re-visited in a follow-up review

>             The module's ``__name__`` attribute for a package, the parent

Reviewer 2: Also, technically, `pkg.__name__` isn't technically right, since it folks may modify that. :)  It is actually derived from `spec.__name__` for the module.

Author: Okay (I think you meant `__spec__.name`).

            package's ``__name__`` attribute for a non-package submodule and

>             the empty string ``''`` for a non-package top-level module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            ``''`` for a non-package top-level module.
```

            The :func:`importlib.util.module_for_loader` decorator can handle
            the details for :attr:`__package__`.

        - :attr:`__loader__`

>             The module's loader.

Reviewer 2: "The module's loader." isn't as clear.  One variation on the original would be:

```
The loader used when the module was imported.
```

Author: I agree.

        reloaded):

        - :attr:`__name__`
            The module's fully-qualified name.

>             It is ``'__main__'`` for non-package modules run from the file

Reviewer 2: This part about `__main__` certainly adds value, but should be in [the `__name__` subsection of the language reference](https://docs.python.org/3/reference/import.html#__name__).  The line above, `The module's fully-qualified name.`, is a nice clarification.

FWIW, the text is a bit unclear and seems to say something that isn't correct.

Author: Alright.

            system, non-package modules run from standard input and non-package
            modules run from the module namespace.

        - :attr:`__file__`

>             The place from which the module's data was imported.  Its value and

Reviewer 2: Sorry for the confusion, but in this case the technically precise "location" is better than "place".  Also, it's the module that gets imported rather than its data.  Also, the caveat about not being set is valuable here, but doesn't need to be an exhaustive list.  Finally, the rest of the text should be in the language reference.

```suggestion
            The location (usually filename) from which the module was imported.  This isn't set on all modules (e.g. built-in modules).
```

Author: Alright.

            The path to where the module data is stored (not set for built-in
            modules).
            The place from which the module's data was imported.  Its value and
            meaning is up to the finder.
            It is the relative path for modules run from the file system, the
            absolute path for imported modules and modules run from the module
            namespace and ``'<stdin>'`` for non-package modules run from
            standard input.
            It is not set for imported namespace packages, imported built-in
            modules and imported frozen modules.

        - :attr:`__cached__`

>             The path to where a compiled version of the module is/should be

Reviewer 2: The original text is mostly okay.  Leave the details to the language reference.  Here I'd only change `is/should` to just `is`.  Don't worry about how it might be set to None.  That isn't critical in these docs.

Author: Alright.

            stored (not set when the attribute would be inappropriate).
            The location of the module's cached data.
            It is the relative path for packages run from the file system and
            the absolute path for imported modules and modules run from the
            module namespace.
            It is not set for non-package modules run from the file system,
            non-package modules run from standard input, imported namespace
            packages, imported built-in modules and imported frozen modules.

        - :attr:`__path__`

>             A list of strings specifying the search path within a

Reviewer 2: Here I recommend leaving the original text alone.

Author: Alright.

Reviewer 5: @maggyero You marked this as resolved, but it does *not* look resolved.

Author: I am reusing the same wording that @ericsnowcurrently suggested for the equivalent `ModuleSpec` attribute below.

Reviewer 2: I'm mostly fine with the change.  (I especially like the "indicator that a module is a package" part.)  There's just one point of accuracy that I think is worth keeping: it is a list of search locations rather than just file paths (though almost always only that).

So I'd say change the first line to be something like:

```
The list of locations where the package's submodules will be found.
```

Author: Thanks @ericsnowcurrently! I agree, I have just applied your suggested change. By the way, should we also use the more general term ‘location’ instead of ‘path’ for the `__cached__` attribute or in that case it can never be anything else than a path?

            package. This attribute is not set on modules.
            The (possibly empty) iterable of all locations to search (i.e. the
            search path) when looking for the package's submodules.  Order is
            significant. ``__path__`` is passed to finders instead of
            ``sys.metapath`` during import of the package's submodules.
            It is not set for non-package modules, packages run from the file
            system and packages run from the module namespace.

        - :attr:`__package__`

>             The parent package for the module/package. If the module is

Reviewer 2: Let's keep in simple:

```
            The fully-qualified name of the package the module is in
            (or the empty string for top-level modules, like ``sys``).
            For all packages it is the same as ``__name__``.
```

Note that I dropped the part about module_for_loader().

Author: I could not have said it better, your version is very concise but precise. Alright.

Reviewer 5: Same, does not look resoled.

Author: @ericsnowcurrently Updated.

            top-level then it has a value of the empty string. The
            :func:`importlib.util.module_for_loader` decorator can handle the
            details for :attr:`__package__`.
            The module's ``__spec.__name`` attribute for imported packages and
            packages run from the module namespace, the parent package's
            ``__spec__.name`` attribute for imported non-package submodules and
            non-paclage submodules run from the module namespace and ``''`` for
            packages run from the file system, imported non-package top-level
            modules and non-package top-level modules run from the module
            namespace.
            The :func:`importlib.util.module_for_loader` decorator can handle
            the details for :attr:`__package__`.

        - :attr:`__loader__`

>             The loader used to load the module. The

Reviewer 2: Your new text is an improvement, but drop the part about module_for_loader().

Author: Alright.

.. class:: ModuleSpec(name, loader, *, origin=None, loader_state=None, is_package=None)

   A specification for a module's import-system-related state.  This is
   typically exposed as the module's :attr:`__spec__` attribute.  In the
   descriptions below, the names in parentheses give the corresponding
   attribute available directly on the module object. For example,
   ``module.__spec__.origin == module.__file__``.  Note however that while
   the *values* are usually equivalent, they can differ since there is no
   synchronization between the two objects.  For example, it is possible
   to update the module's :attr:`__file__` at runtime and this will not be
   automatically reflected in the module's :attr:`__spec__.origin`, and
   vice versa.

   .. versionadded:: 3.4

   .. attribute:: name

   (:attr:`__name__`)

>    The module's fully-qualified name.  Finders should always set this.  A

Reviewer 2: Hmm, I guess "has special meaning" is a bit vague.  For the sake of Finder authors let's be more clear:

```suggestion
   The module's fully-qualified name.  Finders should always set this to a
   non-empty (identifier) string.  The import system may set this to ``None``
   in a few special cases.
```

>    ``None`` value has special meaning.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

   .. attribute:: loader

   (:attr:`__loader__`)

>    The loader that should be used when loading the module.  Finders should

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   The :class:`Loader <importlib.abc.Loader>` that should be used when loading the module.  Finders should
```

   always set this.  A ``None`` value is reserved for namespace packages.

   .. attribute:: origin

   (:attr:`__file__`)

>    The location from which the module should be loaded (e.g. ``'builtin'``

Reviewer 2: Sorry if I was confusing before.  In this case "builtin" isn't really a location so we should be more generic.  Also, it's important to specify that we want the name, rather than some other object representing the origin.

```suggestion
   The name of where the module should be loaded from (e.g. ``'builtin'``
```

   for built-in modules and the path for modules loaded from source).
   Finders should normally set this attribute, but it may be ``None`` (the
   default) which indicates it is unspecified (like for namespace packages).

   .. attribute:: submodule_search_locations

   (:attr:`__path__`)

>    The (possibly empty) iterable specifying the submodule search paths

Reviewer 2: I'd still rather it be closer to the original text (but I appreciate the use of "iterable" here).  I've also clarified a bit of the text:

```suggestion
   For packages, the Finder must set this to the iterable specifying the
   locations where submodules may be found for the package, even if
   it's just an empty list.
   For non-package modules this should be set to ``None``.
   For namespace packages (where :attr:`origin` is ``None``) this
   is set automatically.
```

Note that this isn't the same as what I suggested for `__path__`, which has a different purpose and doesn't have to be as precise.

   within the package (or ``None`` if not a package).  Finders must set
   this on a package, even if just to an empty list.  For namespace
   packages (where :attr:`origin` is ``None``) this is set automatically.

   .. attribute:: loader_state

>    The finder may set this to an object containing additional data for the

Reviewer 2: Here's a slight re-wording (added "module-specific", removed "for the loader"):

```suggestion
   The Finder may set this to an object containing additional,
    module-specific data to use when loading the module.  Otherwise
    it should be set to ``None``.
```

   loader to use when loading the module.  Otherwise it will be ``None``.

   .. attribute:: cached

   (:attr:`__cached__`)

>    The path to where a compiled version of the code should be stored (or

Reviewer 2: The interpretation of the value is up to the loader.

```suggestion
   Where a compiled version of the code should be stored (or ``None``).
   This is typically a filename as provided by
   ::func::`importlib.util.cache_from_source`.
```

.. class:: ModuleSpec(name, loader, *, origin=None, loader_state=None, is_package=None)

   A specification for a module's import-system-related state.  This is
   typically exposed as the module's :attr:`__spec__` attribute.  In the
   descriptions below, the names in parentheses give the corresponding
   attribute available directly on the module object. For example,

>    ``module.__spec__.origin == module.__file__``.  Note however that while

Reviewer 6: What about

```
. Note however, that while ... 
```

Author: It sounds odd to me, didn't you mean to add a comma after "that"?

>    ``module.__spec__.origin == module.__file__``.  Note however that while

Reviewer 2: FWIW, sometimes it is better to minimize churn in a diff than to be meticulous about formatting.  In this case a change early in the paragraph led to all subsequent lines changing, regardless of whether or not they actually changed.  So it may have been better to leave the relevant lines shorter than to introduce churn.

This isn't a big deal, and I don't expect you to change this paragraph again. :)  I just wanted to point out something to consider in the future.

Author: Thanks for the advice. I thought that I would get some linting errors if the lines were longer than 80 characters. But you are right, that is a bad practice on my part as it makes the reviewing process harder. So reformatting should always be done in dedicated PRs?

   the *values* are usually equivalent, they can differ since there is no
   synchronization between the two objects.  For example, it is possible
   to update the module's :attr:`__file__` at runtime and this will not be
   automatically reflected in the module's :attr:`__spec__.origin`, and
   vice versa.

   .. versionadded:: 3.4

   .. attribute:: name

   (:attr:`__name__`)

   The module's fully-qualified name.  Finders should always set this to a

>    non-empty (identifier) string.  The import system may set this to ``None``

Reviewer 2: In what cases is `__name__` set to `None`?  Did you mean to put that last sentence on some other module attribute instead?

Author: I have never encountered such a case. I don't know how this sentence got here. Let's remove it.

   in a few special cases.

   .. attribute:: loader

   (:attr:`__loader__`)

   The :class:`Loader <importlib.abc.Loader>` that should be used when
   loading the module.  Finders should always set this.

   .. attribute:: origin

   (:attr:`__file__`)

   The name of where the module should be loaded from (e.g. ``'builtin'``

>    for built-in modules and the path for modules loaded from source).

Reviewer 2: Hmm, I think "filename" is a little more clear than "path" here.

Author: Well I think "filename" is less correct here as it usually refers to the last path component (the base name), while the `origin` attribute can be an absolute path (cf. the output of the tests at https://bugs.python.org/issue37519). Do you agree?

   Finders should normally set this attribute, but it may be ``None`` (the
   default) which indicates it is unspecified (like for namespace packages).

   .. attribute:: submodule_search_locations

   (:attr:`__path__`)

   For packages, the Finder must set this to the iterable specifying the
   locations where submodules may be found for the package, even if
   it's just an empty list.
   For non-package modules, this should be set to ``None``.
   For namespace packages (where :attr:`origin` is ``None``), this

>    is set automatically.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   is later set to a special object by the import system.
```

   .. attribute:: loader_state

   The Finder may set this to an object containing additional,
   module-specific data to use when loading the module.  Otherwise it
   should be set to ``None``.

   .. attribute:: cached

   (:attr:`__cached__`)

>    Where a compiled version of the code should be stored (or ``None``).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   (str) Where a compiled version of the code should be stored.  For modules
   that do not need compiled code stored, ``cached`` should be ``None``.
```

Author: Thanks for the precision in the last sentence. But why prefixing the type `(str)`? I have nothing against it, but then I think we should do it consistently to all other attributes.

   This is typically a filename as provided by
   ::func::`importlib.util.cache_from_source`.

   .. attribute:: parent

   (:attr:`__package__`)

   (Read-only) The fully-qualified name of the package under which the
   module should be loaded as a submodule (or the empty string for top-level

>    modules).  For packages, it is the same as :attr:`__name__`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   modules).  For packages, it is the same as :attr:`__name__` (since in
   that case ``parent`` relates to the package's `__init__` module).
```

.. class:: ModuleSpec(name, loader, *, origin=None, loader_state=None, is_package=None)

   A specification for a module's import-system-related state.  This is
   typically exposed as the module's :attr:`__spec__` attribute.  In the
   descriptions below, the names in parentheses give the corresponding

>    attribute available directly on the module object. For example,

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   attribute available directly on the module object, e.g.
```

>    ``module.__spec__.origin == module.__file__``.  Note however that while

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   ``module.__spec__.origin == module.__file__``.  Note, however, that while
```

   loading the module.  Finders should always set this.

   .. attribute:: origin

   (:attr:`__file__`)

   The name of where the module should be loaded from (e.g. ``'builtin'``
   for built-in modules and the path for modules loaded from source).
   Finders should normally set this attribute, but it may be ``None`` (the
   default) which indicates it is unspecified (like for namespace packages).

   .. attribute:: submodule_search_locations

   (:attr:`__path__`)

   For packages, the Finder must set this to the iterable specifying the
   locations where submodules may be found for the package, even if
   it's just an empty list.
   For non-package modules, this should be set to ``None``.
   For namespace packages (where :attr:`origin` is ``None``), this
   is later set to a special object by the import system.

   .. attribute:: loader_state

   The Finder may set this to an object containing additional,
   module-specific data to use when loading the module.  Otherwise it
   should be set to ``None``.

   .. attribute:: cached

   (:attr:`__cached__`)

   Where a compiled version of the code should be stored.  For modules

>    that do not need compiled code stored, ``cached`` should be ``None``.

Reviewer 3: Interesting!  This looks like another inconsistency:

```
Python 3.9.0+ (heads/3.9:6e842bcdf8, Oct 21 2020, 14:53:22) 
[Clang 12.0.0 (clang-1200.0.32.2)] on darwin
Type "help", "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information.
>>> import sys
>>> sys.__cached__
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "<stdin>", line 1, in <module>
AttributeError: module 'sys' has no attribute '__cached__'
>>> sys.__spec__.cached
>>>
```

Author: This is not an inconsistency to me, this is consistent with PEP 451 rules. Here are the 3 real inconsistencies that I had found: https://bugs.python.org/issue37519

   This is typically a filename as provided by
   ::func::`importlib.util.cache_from_source`.

   .. attribute:: parent

   (:attr:`__package__`)

   (Read-only) The fully-qualified name of the package under which the
   module should be loaded as a submodule (or the empty string for top-level
   modules).  For packages, it is the same as :attr:`__name__` (since in

>    that case ``parent`` relates to the package's `__init__` module).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
   that case ``parent`` relates to the package's ``__init__`` module).
```

Author: Thanks!

   A specification for a module's import-system-related state.  This is
   typically exposed as the module's ``__spec__`` attribute.  In the
   descriptions below, the names in parentheses give the corresponding
   attribute available directly on the module object. For example,

>    ``module.__spec__.name == module.__name__``.  Note however that while

Reviewer 2: FWIW, the `module.__file__` example was on purpose, to illustrate that they don't necessarily match words.

Author: Alright, I will keep the `module.__spec__.origin == module.__file__` example.

   the *values* are usually equivalent, they can differ since there is no
   synchronization between the two objects.  For example, it is possible

>    to update the module's ``__name__`` at runtime and this will not be

Reviewer 2: ditto

Author: Yes.

   automatically reflected in the module's ``__spec__.name``, or the

>    other way round.

Reviewer 2: s/or the other way round/and vice versa/

Author: I agree, the phrase "vice versa" seems more used in the documentation.

   .. versionadded:: 3.4

   .. attribute:: name

   (``__name__``)

   The module's fully-qualified name.

   .. attribute:: loader

   (``__loader__``)

>    The module's loader.

Reviewer 2: The original text should stay.

The first sentence is clear that when you need to load the module (the first time or for a reload) then this is the loader you use.  "The module's loader."  is a step back.

The second sentence is important to know.

Author: I agree with the first sentence. To be consistent with your suggestion above, we could rephrase it to:

> The loader to use for importing the module.

I disagree with the second sentence though. That was in PEP 420. But now as reported on the description of this PR, on [Stackoverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/52869541) and in the [Python Bug Tracker](https://bugs.python.org/issue35181), both the `__loader__` and `__spec__.loader` attributes of a namespace package are not `None` but the same `_frozen_importlib_external._NamespaceLoader` instance, since [Barry Warsaw's PR](https://github.com/python/cpython/pull/5481) was merged on 1 February 2018.

Reviewer 2: re-visited in a follow-up review

   .. attribute:: origin

   (``__file__``)

>    The origin of the module's source code.

Reviewer 2: The original text was very careful to be precise.  "origin" is more than just for source code.  It is exactly "Name of the place from which the module is loaded".  Please leave that phrasing.

Note that the only purpose of `ModuleSpec` is for a finder to provide all necessary information the loader needs to load the module.  Especially in the case of "origin", the value (and meaning) of each spec attr is up to the finder.  The finder is then responsible for making sure that the loader understands the spec.

So be careful not to make it seem like we are defining all possible values of "origin" here.  We can't because the set of possible values is effectively infinite (even if in practice there won't be many unknown ones).  One or two *examples* are enough to help readers understand.  I can see how listing all the default ones would be useful, but the text should be clear that it could be anything.

Also, of all the default finders and loaders the only one that really matters here is for files (.py, .pyc, .so).  Of all the examples that's the one that should *not* be removed.

Finally, the original last sentence is also important and should be left alone (or at most cleaned up a little).

Author: I agree. I see what was bothering you with the term "location" vs "place": a "location" is technical while a "place" is more general and is not necessarily a loadable location (hence the ``__spec__.has_location`` boolean attribute). So what about:

> The place from which the module's data was imported.  Its value and meaning is up to the finder.
> It is the relative path for packages run from the file system and the absolute path for imported modules and modules run from the module namespace.
> It is ``None`` for imported namespace packages, ``'built-in'`` for imported built-in modules and ``'frozen'`` for imported frozen modules.
> It is not set for non-package modules run from the file system and non-package modules run from standard input.

Reviewer 2: re-visited in a follow-up review

   It is ``'built-in'`` for built-in modules, ``'frozen'`` for
   frozen modules and ``None`` for namespace packages.

   .. attribute:: submodule_search_locations

   (``__path__``)

>    The (possibly empty) iterable  of the locations of the module's

Reviewer 2: Please leave the original text.  You can split out the "It is ``None`` for non-package modules." sentence if you want.

Author: Shouldn't it be consistent with the `__path__` attribute definition that you suggested above?

> The (possibly empty) iterable of all locations to search (i.e. the search path) when looking for the package's submodules.  Order is significant.
> It is ``None`` for packages run from the file system, imported non-package modules and modules run from the module namespace.
> It is not set for non-package modules run from the file system and non-package modules run from standard input.

Reviewer 2: re-visited in a follow-up review

   submodules.
   It is ``None`` for non-package modules.

   .. attribute:: loader_state

>    The container of the module's additional data meant for use by

Reviewer 2: ```
The finder may set this to an object containing additional data for the loader to use when loading the module.  Otherwise it will be ``None``.
```

Author: Okay.

   the finder and corresponding loader.

   .. attribute:: cached

   (``__cached__``)
   The location of the module's compiled code.

>    It is ``None`` for built-in modules, frozen modules and

Reviewer 2: ```
The location of the module's compiled code.  Some loaders support optimization through caching the bytecode of the module.  ``cached`` is how the finder tells the loader where to look for that cached bytecode, or where to store it.  It is ``None`` for any module that does not have bytecode (such as built-in modules and namespace packages).
```

Note that it doesn't necessarily have to be "bytecode".  However, that's good enough. :)

Author: I see. What about:

> The location of the module's cached data.  Some loaders support optimization through caching the bytecode of the module.  ``cached`` is how the finder tells the loader where to look for that cached bytecode, or where to store it.
> It is the relative path for packages run from the file system and the absolute path for imported modules and modules run from the module namespace.
> It is ``None`` for imported namespace packages, imported built-in modules and imported frozen modules.
> It is not set for non-package modules run from the file system and non-package modules run from standard input.

Reviewer 2: re-visited in a follow-up review

   namespace packages.

   .. attribute:: parent

   (``__package__``)

>    The module's ``__name__`` attribute for a package, the parent

Reviewer 2: Again, for subpackages it is fullname of the parent package.

Author: I disagree here, for the same reason as the `__package__` attribute.

   package's ``__name__`` attribute for a non-package submodule and
   ``''`` for a non-package top-level module.
   It is a read-only attribute.

   .. attribute:: has_location

>    The flag indicating whether or not the module's ``__origin__`` attribute

Reviewer 2: The original seems fine.  If need be, I'd be more comfortable with something like the following:

```
``True`` if the loader should treat the spec's "origin" attribute as a location from which it can load the module.
```

Listing examples is fine, but it needs to be clear that (like "origin") this is up to the finder and only the loader really cares.  So listing all the default kinds of modules doesn't really add much useful information.

Author: Okay, what about:

> The Boolean indicating whether or not the module's ``origin`` attribute refers to a locatable module.
> It is ``True`` for packages run from the file system, imported modules and modules run from the module namespace and ``False`` for imported namespace packages, imported built-in modules and imported frozen modules.
> It is not set for non-package modules run from the file system and non-package modules run from standard input.

Reviewer 2: re-visited in a follow-up review

   typically exposed as the module's ``__spec__`` attribute.  In the
   descriptions below, the names in parentheses give the corresponding
   attribute available directly on the module object.

>    E.g., ``module.__spec__.name == module.__name__``.  Note however that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   E.g., ``module.__spec__.origin == module.__path__``.  Note however that
```

Author: @brettcannon Thank you for the review. I accepted all your suggestions, except this one: ``module.__spec__.origin == module.__path__``, because:

1. This expression is false but I think you made a typo and you meant ``module.__spec__.submodule_search_locations == module.__path__``.
2. This example illustrates the _previous_ sentence that states the equivalence between spec attributes and module attributes in parentheses; it does not illustrates the _next_ sentence that states that two equivalent attributes are not synchronized, which is already illustrated by another example in the last sentence ("Thus it is possible to update the module's ``__path__`` at runtime *for instance*,"). So the pair of attributes in this example and in the next sentence need not be identical. The proof is that this example was (before this pull request) ``module.__spec__.origin == module.__file__`` and the last sentence was about a different pair of attributes: ``__path__`` and ``__spec__.submodule_search_locations``.

Reviewer: You're correct I messed up my suggested edit.

I still think the examples should be in sync, though. Whether it's with `__path__`, `__file__`, or whatever isn't critical, but the sudden shift in example is a bit jarring and the wording doesn't prepare the reader for the shift.

Author: @brettcannon I agree. The examples are in sync now. Let me know if that is fine for you.

   while the *values* are usually equivalent, they can differ since there
   is no synchronization between the two objects.  Thus it is possible
   to update the module's ``__path__`` at runtime for instance, and this
   will not be automatically reflected in the module's
   ``__spec__.submodule_search_locations``.

   .. versionadded:: 3.4

   .. attribute:: name

   (``__name__``)

   The module's fully-qualified name.

   .. attribute:: loader

   (``__loader__``)

   The module's loader.

   .. attribute:: origin

   (``__file__``)

   The origin of the module's source code.
   It is ``'built-in'`` for built-in modules, ``'frozen'`` for
   frozen modules and ``None`` for namespace packages.

   .. attribute:: submodule_search_locations

   (``__path__``)

>    The iterable (possibly empty) of the locations of the module's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The (possibly empty) iterable  of the locations of the module's
```

   submodules.
   It is ``None`` for non-package modules.

   .. attribute:: loader_state

   The container of the module's additional data meant for use by
   the finder and corresponding loader.

   .. attribute:: cached

   (``__cached__``)
   The location of the module's compiled code.
   It is ``None`` for built-in modules, frozen modules and
   namespace packages.

   .. attribute:: parent

   (``__package__``)

   The module's ``__name__`` attribute for a package, the parent
   package's ``__name__`` attribute for a non-package submodule and

>    the empty string ``''`` for a non-package top-level module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ``''`` for a non-package top-level module.
```

   (``__name__``)

>    Fully-qualified name of the module.

Reviewer 3: "The fully-qualified..."

Author: Done.

   .. attribute:: loader

   (``__loader__``)

>    Loader object to use for loading the module.

Reviewer 3: "The loader object..."

Author: Done.

   .. attribute:: origin

   (``__file__``)

>    Path to the code from where the module should be loaded.

Reviewer 3: "The path to the code..."

Author: Done.

   It is ``None`` for builtin modules and namespace package modules.

   .. attribute:: submodule_search_locations

   (``__path__``)

>    Iterable (possibly empty) of locations to search for submodules of a

Reviewer 3: "An iterable..."

Author: Done.

>    package module during import. It is `None` for non-package modules.

Reviewer 3: "package during import", i.e. I don't think you need to say "package module" here.

Author: Done.

   A specification for a module's import-system-related state.  This is

>    typically exposed as the module's ``__spec__`` attribute.  In the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   typically exposed as the module's :attr:`__spec__` attribute.  In the
```

   descriptions below, the names in parentheses give the corresponding
   attribute available directly on the module object. For example,
   ``module.__spec__.origin == module.__file__``.  Note however that while
   the *values* are usually equivalent, they can differ since there is no
   synchronization between the two objects.  For example, it is possible
   to update the module's ``__file__`` at runtime and this will not be
   automatically reflected in the module's ``__spec__.origin``, and vice
   versa.

   .. versionadded:: 3.4

   .. attribute:: name

>    (``__name__``)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   (:attr:`__name__`)
```

   The module's fully-qualified name.

>    It is not set for non-package modules run from the file system and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Finders should always set this.  A ``None`` value has special meaning.
```

>    non-package modules run from standard input.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

   .. attribute:: loader

>    (``__loader__``)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   (:attr:`__loader__`)
```

>    The loader to use for importing the module.

Reviewer 2: Here's a subtle change that is slightly more correct (since loading is only part of importing).

```suggestion
   The loader to use when importing the module.
```

>    It is not set for non-package modules run from the file system and

Reviewer 2: This part about "not set" is not correct.  It is always set, even if only to None.

```suggestion
   Finders should always set this.  A ``None`` value is reserved for namespace packages.
```

Also, don't worry about bpo-32303 (#5481) here.

>    non-package modules run from standard input.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

   .. attribute:: origin

>    (``__file__``)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   (:attr:`__file__`)
```

   The loader to use for loading.  For namespace packages this should be
   set to ``None``.
   The loader to use for importing the module.
   It is not set for non-package modules run from the file system and
   non-package modules run from standard input.

   .. attribute:: origin

   (``__file__``)

>    Name of the place from which the module is loaded, e.g. "builtin" for

Reviewer 2: Please keep the original text.  If you do change anything, please limit it to making clear the expectation for Finder authors.  For example:

```
   The name of the place from which the module is loaded.  For example,
   "builtin" for built-in modules and the filename for modules loaded from source.
   Finders should normally set "origin", but it may be ``None`` (the default)
   which indicates it is unspecified (like for namespace packages).
```

Author: Alright.

   .. attribute:: submodule_search_locations

>    (``__path__``)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   (:attr:`__path__`)
```

   The place from which the module's data was imported.  Its value and meaning
   is up to the finder.
   It is the relative path for packages run from the file system and the
   absolute path for imported modules and modules run from the module
   namespace.
   It is ``None`` for imported namespace packages, ``'built-in'`` for imported
   built-in modules and ``'frozen'`` for imported frozen modules.
   It is not set for non-package modules run from the file system and
   non-package modules run from standard input.

   .. attribute:: submodule_search_locations

   (``__path__``)

>    List of strings for where to find submodules, if a package (``None``

Reviewer 2: Please leave the original text.  At most, make it clear what Finders should do:

```
   A list of strings for where to find submodules (or ``None`` if not a package).
   Finders must set this if this is a package, even if just to an empty list.  For
   namespace packages (where :attr:`origin` is ``None``) this is set automatically.
```

Author: Alright.

Reviewer 5: Marking as unresolved because it does not look resolved.

Reviewer 3: Oops, sorry for the previous comment.  I misread @ericsnowcurrently comment.

Author: @ericsnowcurrently Updated.

>    (``__cached__``)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   (:attr:`__cached__`)
```

   The (possibly empty) iterable of all locations to search (i.e. the search
   path) when looking for the package's submodules.  Order is significant.
   It is ``None`` for packages run from the file system, imported non-package
   modules and modules run from the module namespace.
   It is not set for non-package modules run from the file system and
   non-package modules run from standard input.

   .. attribute:: loader_state

   Container of extra module-specific data for use during loading (or
   ``None``).
   The finder may set this to an object containing additional data for the
   loader to use when loading the module.  Otherwise it will be ``None``.

   .. attribute:: cached

   (``__cached__``)

>    String for where the compiled module should be stored (or ``None``).

Reviewer 2: Please leave the original text alone.

Author: Alright.

Reviewer 5: Please, refrain to mark reviews as resolve when they are not.

Author: @ericsnowcurrently Since we described what the finder should do for the other attributes we may describe it here as well.

>    (``__package__``)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   (:attr:`__package__`)
```

   The location of the module's cached data.  Some loaders support optimization
   through caching the bytecode of the module.  ``cached`` is how the finder
   tells the loader where to look for that cached bytecode, or where to store
   it.
   It is the relative path for packages run from the file system and the
   absolute path for imported modules and modules run from the module
   namespace.
   It is ``None`` for imported namespace packages, imported built-in modules
   and imported frozen modules.
   It is not set for non-package modules run from the file system and
   non-package modules run from standard input.

   .. attribute:: parent

   (``__package__``)

>    (Read-only) Fully-qualified name of the package to which the module

Reviewer 2: As with `__package__`:

```
   (Read-only) The fully-qualified name of the package under which the
   module should be loaded as a submodule.
   For packages, the same as ``name``.
   For top-level modules, the empty string.
   For all other modules, the parent package's ``name``.
```

That "None" part was definitely a mistake.

Author: Alright.

   belongs as a submodule (or ``None``).
   The module's ``__spec.__name`` attribute for imported packages and packages
   run from the module namespace, the parent package's ``__spec__.name``
   attribute for imported non-package submodules and non-paclage submodules run
   from the module namespace and ``''`` for packages run from the file system,
   imported non-package top-level modules and non-package top-level modules run
   from the module namespace.
   It is not set for non-package modules run from the file system and
   non-package modules run from standard input.
   It is a read-only attribute.

   .. attribute:: has_location

>    Boolean indicating whether or not the module's "origin"

Reviewer 2: ```
   True if the spec's :attr:`origin` refers to a loadable location.  False otherwise.
   This value impacts how ``origin`` is interpreted and how the module's
   ``__file__`` is populated.
```

Author: Alright.

.. class:: ModuleSpec(name, loader, *, origin=None, loader_state=None, is_package=None)

   A specification for a module's import-system-related state.  This is
   typically exposed as the module's :attr:`__spec__` attribute.  In the
   descriptions below, the names in parentheses give the corresponding
   attribute available directly on the module object, e.g.
   ``module.__spec__.origin == module.__file__``.  Note, however, that while
   the *values* are usually equivalent, they can differ since there is no
   synchronization between the two objects.  For example, it is possible to
   update the module's :attr:`__file__` at runtime and this will not be
   automatically reflected in the module's :attr:`__spec__.origin`, and vice

>    versa.

Reviewer 2: FYI, there is no need to re-justify lines (unless they get too long).  If a line gets shorter then usually you can just leave it shorter.  The benefit is that subsequent lines don't get changed and therefore don't show up in the diff.  This helps reviewers since they don't have to figure out that those lines were only re-justified rather than actually changed.

(Justification is particularly less important in our .rst files since the rendered page ignores those line wraps anyway.)

Author: That makes sense, done.

   .. versionadded:: 3.4

   .. attribute:: name

   (:attr:`__name__`)

   The module's fully-qualified name.
   The :term:`finder` should always set this attribute to a non-empty string.

   .. attribute:: loader

   (:attr:`__loader__`)

   The :term:`loader` used to load the module.
   The :term:`finder` should always set this attribute.

   .. attribute:: origin

   (:attr:`__file__`)

>    The location from which the module was loaded (usually the path).

Reviewer 2: I recommend keeping "is", instead of "was".  Think of the spec as instructions (for the loader) instead of a record of what happened.

Also, the `ModuleSpec` docs should favor Finder/Loader authors, so "usually a path" is irrelevant.  I recommend dropping that part or, better, change it into an example.

(FYI "path" is such an overloaded term that I try to avoid it in favor of "filename".)

Putting that all together:

```suggestion
   The location from which the module is loaded.
   For example, for modules loaded from a .py file this is the filename.
```

or even better:

```suggestion
   The location the :term:`loader` should use to load the module.
   For example, for modules loaded from a .py file this is the filename.
```

Author: That makes sense, thanks. Done.

   The :term:`finder` should always set this attribute but it may be ``None``

>    when unspecified (like for namespace packages).

Reviewer 2: FWIW, I'm surprised that `origin` isn't "builtin" for a builtin module, since that's where it came from.  (It's "frozen" for frozen modules.)  Instead it's `None`, which basically means it doesn't have an origin (true for namespace packages).  Perhaps I'm remembering wrong but did it get changed as some point?  Regardless, we should consider changing it to "builtin" (not in this PR, of course).

Reviewer 2: As noted, `None` indicates that the module doesn't have a meaningful origin.  So I'm not sure why we said "undefined" in the first place.  In the spirit of this PR, consider the following:

```suggestion
   The :term:`finder` should always set this attribute to a meaningful value
   for the :term:`loader` to use.  In the uncommon case that there isn't one
   (like for namespace packages), it should be set to ``None``.
```

   .. attribute:: submodule_search_locations

   (:attr:`__path__`)

>    The list of paths where to find submodules within a package.

Reviewer 2: As mentioned above, it doesn't have to be dirnames.  Also, `module.__path__` is what the import system uses so we only need to include details here relevant to Finder/Loader authors (instead of users).

```suggestion
   The list of places the import system should look for submodules.
   (See :attr:`__path__` for more info on how it is used.)
```

Author: Updated.

>    The :term:`finder` should always set this attribute to ``None`` for

Reviewer 2: There's a key point here that we should make clear for Finder authors.  I hinted at it in [my previous comment](https://github.com/python/cpython/pull/10016/files#r303106338) but suggest an even more explicit note.

```suggestion
   Setting this to a list, even an empty one, is how a :term:`finder` indicates
   to the import system that this is a package.  It should be set to ``None`` for
```

   non-package modules.  It is set automatically later to a special object for
   namespace packages.

   .. attribute:: loader_state

   The :term:`finder` may set this to an object containing additional,
   module-specific data to use when loading the module.  Otherwise it should be
   set to ``None``.

   .. attribute:: cached

   (:attr:`__cached__`)

   The path to a compiled version of the module's code.
   The :term:`finder` should always set this attribute but it may be ``None``
   for modules that do not need compiled code stored.

   .. attribute:: parent

   (:attr:`__package__`)

   (Read-only) The fully-qualified name of the package the module is in (or the

>    empty string for the top-level module).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   empty string for a top-level module).
```

>    It is the same as :attr:`__name__` for packages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   If the module is a package then this is the same as :attr:`name`.
```

   .. attribute:: has_location

>    ``True`` if the spec's :attr:`origin` refers to a loadable location.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ``True`` if the spec's :attr:`origin` refers to a loadable location,
```

   (``__cached__``)

>    Path to the compiled code from where the module should be loaded.

Reviewer 3: "The path to the compiled..."

Author: Done.

.. class:: ModuleSpec(name, loader, *, origin=None, loader_state=None, is_package=None)

   A specification for a module's import-system-related state.  This is
   typically exposed as the module's :attr:`__spec__` attribute.  In the
   descriptions below, the names in parentheses give the corresponding
   attribute available directly on the module object,
   e.g. ``module.__spec__.origin == module.__file__``.  Note, however, that
   while the *values* are usually equivalent, they can differ since there is
   no synchronization between the two objects.  For example, it is possible to update
   the module's :attr:`__file__` at runtime and this will not be automatically
   reflected in the module's :attr:`__spec__.origin`, and vice versa.

   .. versionadded:: 3.4

   .. attribute:: name

   (:attr:`__name__`)

   The module's fully-qualified name.
   The :term:`finder` should always set this attribute to a non-empty string.

   .. attribute:: loader

   (:attr:`__loader__`)

   The :term:`loader` used to load the module.
   The :term:`finder` should always set this attribute.

   .. attribute:: origin

   (:attr:`__file__`)

>    The location the :term:`loader` should use to load the module.

Reviewer 2: To be clear: this is correct.  In other words, the text for `__file__` above and for `origin` here should not match exactly.
